[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: Where we left off before
is we had just started to dive into
coding in Node.js and
we built our first one .js program.
Which if you recall, it was sort
of a command line program in that
we could pass in a filename and
it would read that filename.
Get the contents back,
send them back to us and
it would even simulate the idea of
multiple levels of asynchronicity.
Now, let's assume that
there's more complexity to
real world programs,
obviously there will be.
So the first thing that we might observe
is we're already starting to get into
that nested callback syndrome.
And we spent quite a bit of
time yesterday talking and
even this morning talking about why
nested callbacks, just in general.
Not this specific example, but in general,
they tend to lead us down a path
that's less flexible, less reliable, loss
of implicit trust, inversion of control.
So wherever we can
attempt to address that,
I think it's usually better
to try to address it.
So, what we're gonna do is take our
helloworld file and save it out.
Call it a different name, so
save it out and call it helloworld2.js.
And we'll do the same thing with our 1.js,
we're now actually ready,
I was pretty much sure on the other one.
We're now ready to call
that one 2.js [COUGH].
And we'll make sure to load in,
in 2.js make sure to update your reference
to your loading in helloworld2.js.
Update your little copyright
statement if you will.
So, the next task that we
wanna do is look at dealing a little bit
more cleanly with the asynchronicity.
Now I'm gonna show you and
ask you to play along with asynquence.
Not because I wanna shove it down
your throat, if you don't like it,
if you've got another library
you wanna use, please feel free.
Everybody has their own taste,
but I made it so
that it was easy to understand, that's
the whole goal of the design of that API.
And hopefully that aligns
with our goals here,
we wanna easily understand
what we're doing.
So, the first thing that we're
going to do is need to make sure
asynquence is installed.
And we're also gonna wanna
make sure there's a separate
repository that includes some plugins.
I've written all of them,
but theoretically they would
include plugins from others.
Because one of the other things
that asynquence provides
is a simple mechanism for you to extend
the API with your own functionality.
There's a simple little plug in mechanism.
So about half of the functionality
that's already out there for
asynquence is provided
as separate plugins.
Which means you can choose to include them
or not or include bits and pieces of them.
So in our directory,
we would want to do npm install.
The word asyquence,
it's spelled a-s-y-n-q-u-e-n-c-e.
It's like the word async plus
the word sequence and smash together.
So you want to install asynquence and
you also wanna install asyquence-contrib.
Which is gonna pull in the module that
has those additional plugins in it.
So install both of those.
That should take just a second
cuz they're pretty tiny,
these are two or three k each,
so they're really small.
[COUGH]
And those of you that are already here,
you're already gonna have that
in your node modules directory.
But to verify that you do have
in fact installed correctly.
You wanna be able to see asynquence and
asynquence-contrib.
Now that we have those installed in our
project, we're able to [COUGH], sorry,
I'm in the wrong window here.
Now that we have them
installed in our project,
we're able to use them
from inside of our code.
Now, [COUGH] I primarily wanna
use it inside of my module.
So, really the style here
with module dependencies is
you include them wherever you need them.
And Node takes care of making sure it's
not re-requesting the same file over and
over and over again.
So we're just gonna make sure
we definitely require it here.
So I'm gonna say var and
I like to call mine capital ASQ.
You can call it whatever you want.
But that's my typical symbol that I use.
That's the symbol that it automatically
attaches to when you use it in the browser
as a global.
So ASQ is what I like to use [COUGH] and
call it whatever you feel and
include the asynquence library.
Now there's something
a little bit non-idiomatic or
non-standard in the way that I do
asynquence and asynquence-contrib.
Is that you also are going to
require the asynquence-contrib,
but it doesn't return anything for you.
So you don't need to save it somewhere
you can, but it doesn't return anything.
So you don't need to save it,
all it's going to do is attach itself
directly to the asynquence library.
So, it's sufficient for you to just simply
require it in asynquence-contrib.
And it basically has a no return value
that you don't need to worry about.
Okay, so
now we have asynquence available to us.
Let's take a look at this code
that's using these nested timeouts.
Let's break it down.
How could we express this
as a sequence of things?
Well, clearly the first
step is read a file and
wait for that file reading to finish.
That's the first step.
The second step is call a timeout and
wait for that to finish and
then the third step is
send the contents out.
So we can express that series
as an asynquence call.
So what I'm gonna do is we're gonna get
rid of the callback cuz we're not gonna
deal with the callback
calling style anymore.
And I'm gonna rename
this function from say,
I'm gonna call it just read file cuz
that's what it's doing, that's its task.
Then I'm gonna make another function down
here which is actually the say function.
He receives a filename.
Now, what say is going to
do is create a sequence
that represents this series for us, okay?
So the first two steps we definitely
know if we want to create an asynquence.
I'm gonna return this sequence,
the first step is read the file,
put the filename.
That's gonna give us a sequence back and
then we wanna delay
ourselves a little bit.
So I will call then(delayMsg) for
instance is what I might call.
>> Kyle: So let's implement
the delayMsg which is pretty simple.
>> Kyle: He receives a done
trigger the way asynquence
callbacks receive a done trigger.
It receives a done trigger and
he receives the message that was passed
along to him which in this case is
the contents of our file.
>> Kyle: And
he sets up a timeout.
>> Kyle: That 1,000
milliseconds from now he will call that
done trigger and pass along the contents.
Nothing rocket science here, we're just
taking in a value and delaying its return.
We're simulating again some
kind of call to a database or
something like that.
>> Kyle: Now let's come up to the readFile
function and let's reimplement the
readFile function in a much simpler way.
So I'm gonna create a sequence here,
I'll call it sq.
You create a sequence just simply
by calling the symbol ASQ or
whatever you called it.
Open close parentheses, that creates
an empty sequence that's ready for
you to start chaining off of.
Now I need to do fs.readFile.
Here's where you're gonna start to
see some very interesting things.
We get to get rid of all of that code,
my code sucked anyway.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Kyle: And all we need to do is return
our sequence.
So let's follow this flow before I
fill in, there's a missing gap there.
But before I fill in the gap, readFile,
we call that function with the filename.
And he returns us back a sequence,
it's like returning us back a promise.
See that on line 16.
So on line 2, we create the sequence and
on line 6 we return it,
in between we need to do
something with our sequence.
So I could have done something
like sq.then or whatever.
But I wanna show you another
capability of asynquence,
another sort of syntactic
sugar that makes things nice.
Because we might have done, we could
have done something like sq.then and
we could have had a function
with a done on it.
And we could have called our fs.readfile
inside of that and that would work.
But that's kind of crufty,
there are some extra,
creating a function,
an inline function there.
And of course, you're gonna have to name
your functions and all of that junk.
So that kind of sucks,
I don't wanna do it that way.
Turns out there is an easier way to do it.
Whenever you need to present somewhere,
whenever you need to pass somewhere, one
of those special error first callbacks.
Remember I said Node is famous for
those error first callbacks which is the
error is always the first parameter and
the success is always
the subsequent parameters.
So if you need an error first cal back
which we do, we need a callback for
the readFile function.
Cuz the built in node one is not
asynquence aware nor is it promise aware.
So we need to essentially
construct a callback.
Now we could do it manually
like we did before.
We could do it and
put our error in our contents here.
We could write it all out but
that's sucks, nobody wants to do that.
So asynquence has a feature in it
that allows you to say sq., which
is our sequence and we can call errfcb,
which stands for error first callbacks.
So that's gonna generate
an error first callback
that is attached to our sequence for us.
It automatically does all that wrapping
of the if and the error condition and
all of that stuff for us.
[COUGH] I was gonna make sure I'm not
getting too far off track with my plans
here.
>> Kyle: Okay.
So we've generated a callback
from our sequence to pass it in.
This is one of those adapters that
makes it easy to work with asynquence
in environments that are not
fundamentally promise aware.
There are also ways for you to adapt
asynquence to work with native promises,
there are also helpers for that.
So it attempts to try to
make it very easy for
you to use asynquence in other
environments that aren't already
sort of promise aware and
doing that sort of thing.
But we've constructed that error first
callback, that's gonna automatically wire
in both the success and failure callbacks
to our sequence the way we want.
So everything here is done.
We've now clean up this code, so
that we have a single place in our
logic that we can go and look at.
I know that my flow is read
the file then delay the message.
And if there were three or ten or
20 steps, I could read it very directly.
There'd be a place in my code where
that sequence would be expressed.